>> Francesca Sadikin: So we just covered
the story of how I learned active
listening.
Just a few takeaways here from this story,
as a reminder,
creating connections with others
is not just for extroverts.
Even those with social anxiety can develop
this skill, and it is that, it is a skill.
You gotta remember to
start with genuine intent,
an intent to understand the other person.
Authenticity is crucial for
building trust.
And active listening is just
a skill to help you foster this
connection by making the other
person feel heard and understood.
So let me actually cover a little bit
more in detail what is active listening.
I actually really like this description
by Harvard Business Review,
so I'm gonna read it loud.
What exactly is a active listening?
You might think you are a good listener
because you put away distractions,
stay quiet, and then nod your head
when someone's talking to you.
You might even repeat back your
conversation partner's main points to
demonstrate that you've heard and
absorbed them.
These are all smart things to do, but
they can still leave the speaker
feeling unheard or even dismissed.
So active listening is when you not
only hear what someone is saying but
also attune to their thoughts and
feelings.
It turns a conversation into an active,
noncompetitive two-way interaction.
Robin Abrahams and Boris Groysberg
from Harvard Business School describes
active listening as having three aspects.
Cognitive, so mentally we are paying
attention to all of the information,
what someone is explicitly and
implicitly saying, comprehending,
just trying to build
that picture in our head.
Emotionally, we're trying to stay calm and
compassionate during the conversation.
Filtering out emotions such as annoyance,
boredom, judgment,
about what they're saying,
you wanna filter all of that out.
Behavioral, so in your body and
your facial expressions,
you're going to be conveying interest and
comprehension, verbally and non-verbally.
So body cues, and then also through
our words we're saying, yes,
we want to hear more,
we want to understand.
Some other little tips that I have,
again, important,
make the other person feel heard and
understood.
That is the entire point
of using active listening.
>> Francesca Sadikin: People will not
share anything if they don't feel like
they can trust you or if there is not
a safe place for them to share, right?
And so to do that,
we have to make sure that we are, again,
filtering out our inner feelings
of judgment, shame, or blame.
People can sense it immediately, and
they're gonna clam up immediately.
>> Francesca Sadikin: I've also
noticed that a lot of conversations
kind of bucket into three categories,
what, why, and emotions.
So when we're talking about conversations
that try to create a connection,
what in this diagram is like the air?
There's nothing of substance there,
we want to move away from those
types of questions quickly and
move into why, which is a little bit more.
And then the big bulk
of it is the emotions.
This is where connection is formed, when
we actually start to share how we feel.
>> Francesca Sadikin: So two active
listening tactics out of many that I'm
gonna share with you is mirroring and
labeling emotions.
So remember, again,
active listening is a way for
you to demonstrate your desire to
hear the other person's experience,
creating space for
the other person to share more.
So mirroring achieves that by giving them
a verbal cue that we'd love to hear more.
So for example, I said, I'm worried about
my presentation for the board meeting.
And my friend could say, what about
the presentation is worrying you?
So that is actually a clue for me,
it's like, she wants to hear more,
let me share more, right?
Labeling emotions, so
like my previous diagram, we want to
get to the emotions as quickly as
possible cuz that's the interesting part.
And one of the easiest ways to do
that is by labeling the emotions
of the other person, one,
to see if you did actually understand
what it is that they're feeling.
And two, it prompts them to continue
sharing more, if they feel comfortable.
So for example, they just wouldn't listen,
even though brought it up so many times.
And I could say,
did that feel really frustrating?
My friend can say, exactly,
it was frustrating because blah, right?
You can see that these types of
questions is a way to prompt for more.